# https://medium.com/analytics-vidhya/using-minikube-for-local-deplyment-of-single-node-kubernetes-cluster-25bb576d532b

Kubernetes is an open source container orchestration platform that automates many of the manual processes involved in deploying, managing, and scaling containerized applications. It is also known as k8s.

Kubernetes was originally developed and designed by at Google and was open sourced in 2014.

Advantage of Kubernetes :

Orchestrate containers across multiple hosts.
Control and automate application deployments and updates.
Mount and add storage to run apps.
Scale containerized applications and their resources.
Manage services which guarantees the deployed applications are always running the way you intended them to run.
Health-check and self-heal your apps with auto-placement, auto-restart, auto-replication, and auto-scaling.
Kubernetes is significantly more complex than Swarm, and requires more work to deploy. For development work, and smaller container clusters, Docker Swarm presents a simpler choice.



Master Components :
API Server
Kubernetes is an API server which provides all the operation on cluster using the API.Its basically the entry point .

Controller Manager
This component is responsible for most of the collectors that regulates the state of cluster and performs a task.

Scheduler
This is one of the key components of Kubernetes master. It is a service in master responsible for distributing the workload. It is responsible for tracking utilization of working load on cluster nodes.

etcd



Worker Node Components :

Kubelet: Kubelet ensures that all containers in the node are running and are in the healthy state. Its also responsible for communication between master and worker nodes.

Container: Containers are the lowest level of Microservice, placed inside the pod and needs external IP address to view the outside process.

Kube Proxy: It acts as a network proxy and a load balancer. It forwards the request to the correct pods across isolated networks in a cluster.




